Okay, we need to talk about environment
variables and I'm going to do this
through an assignment. So MySQL is
probably one of the most popular
databases out there, and what we want to
do is we're going to run MySQL in a
container, in a Docker container. What
we want to do is we want to use some
environment variables, to help enable
this. So this is a good exercise, so we
can remap ports, we can map storage. Now
we're going to introduce environment
variables. That's a very simple
parameter. We do a dash E, name, value so
and if we look at the MySQL Docker
documentation for the instance. Open Docker hub.
It tells us exactly how to do this.
So what I want us to have is a MySQL
container running and persisting to
storage, on the localhost, where it's
going to set up and map the ports for
MySQL. 3306 remember right? And so
we'll map out the ports and the MySQL
image has environment variables that we
set. And what I want to do is enable a
null root password. So this is a very
common in the MySQL community,
unfortunately, but it is very bad habit
to do. But, this is a little development
instance, we're just playing with and the
goal of this exercise is to get you to
set an environment variable. Now these
environment variables are extremely
important, and from experience in working
with a lot of Docker containers, you're
going to be setting environment
variables, mapping ports, and mapping
storage. So these are the big three when
we're dealing with Docker containers in
a development context. Now that there's
more to Docker than it just is but
for you as a Java developer the big
three are mapping ports, environment
variables, and mapping storage. So this is
the stuff that you're going to be
worried about in your day to day use with
using Docker. So that's good exercise.
Just to recap, create a MySQL container,
open up the port 3306 for for MySQL
so we can connect to it ,and storage, you
know why I have a persistent storage, and
then we also want a null root password,
and that is done through an
environment variable.